Updates to ZIP 32 and ZIP 224 for Orchard (#448)
zcash/zips: zip-0224.rst

The Orchard protocol is specified as an update to the Zcash Protocol Specification
[#orchard-spec]_. Given that it largely follows the design of the Sapling protocol, we
provide here a list of differences, with references to their normative specifications
and associated design rationale.

Curves
------

The Orchard protocol uses the Pallas / Vesta curve cycle, in place of BLS12-381 and its
embedded curve Jubjub:

- Pallas is used as the "application curve", on which the Orchard protocol itself is
  implemented (c/f Jubjub).
- Vesta is used as the "circuit curve"; its scalar field (being the base field of Pallas)
  is the "word" type over which the circuit is implemented (c/f BLS12-381).

We use (version 10 of) the IETF hash-to-curve Internet Draft [#ietf-hash-to-curve]_ to
implement :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`, instead of the BLAKE2s-based mechanism used for
Sapling. We specifically use the "simplified SWU" algorithm, which provides an infallible
:math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`.

The presence of the curve cycle is an explicit design choice. This ZIP only uses half of
the cycle (Pallas being an embedded curve of Vesta); the full cycle is expected to be
leveraged by future ZIPs.

> - Curve specifications: [#spec-pasta]_

Author: Style question: should these be rendered as references, or in-line links? The latter would be easier to click through to, but I'm on the fence about which is clearer as to what references are normative vs informative.

Reviewer: The Internet Draft is not normative (it's a draft, so it can't be). This part should say that the hash is as defined in the "Group Hash to Pallas and Vesta" section of the protocol spec, and that it is intended to follow the Internet Draft (but the protocol spec takes precedence in the case of any discrepancy).

Reviewer: IOW, the formatting isn't what determines what is normative. Only the plain text of the specification determines what is normative (preferably by using RFC 2119 keywords).

migrate spend authority to a recursion-friendly curve. Spend authority in the Sapling
shielded pool is rooted in the Jubjub curve, but there is no known way to construct an
efficient curve cycle (or path to one) from either Jubjub or BLS12-381.

Despite having recursion-friendliness as a design goal, we do not propose a recursive
protocol in this ZIP. Deploying an entire scaling solution in a single upgrade would be a
risky endeavour with a lot of moving parts. By focusing just on the components that enable
a recursive protocol (namely the curve cycle and the proving system), we can start the
migration of value to a scalable protocol before actually deploying the scalable protocol
itself.

The remainder of the changes we make relative to Sapling are motivated by simplifying the
Sapling protocol (and fixing deficiencies), and using protocol primitives that are more
efficient in the UltraPLONK arithmetization.

Security and Privacy Considerations
===================================

This ZIP defines a new shielded pool. As with Sapling, the Orchard protocol only supports
spending Orchard notes, and moving ZEC into or out of the Orchard pool happens via an

> Orchard-specific :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance}` transaction field. This has the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchard-specific :math:`\mathsf{valueBalanceOrchard}` transaction field. This has the following
```

considerations:

- The Orchard pool forms a separate anonymity set from the Sprout and Sapling pools. The
  new pool will start with zero notes (as Sapling did at its deployment), but transactions
  within Orchard will increase the size of the anonymity set more rapidly than Sapling,
  due to the arity-hiding nature of Orchard actions.
- The "transparent turnstile" created by the :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance}` field, combined
  with the consensus checks that each pool's balance cannot be negative, together enforce
  that any potential counterfeiting bugs in the Orchard protocol or implementation are
  contained within the Orchard pool, and similarly any potential counterfeiting bugs in
  existing shielded pools cannot cause inflation of the Orchard pool.
- Spending funds residing in the Orchard pool to a non-Orchard address will reveal the
  value of the transaction. This is a necessary side-effect of the transparent turnstile,
  but can be mitigated by migrating the majority of shielded activity to the Orchard pool
  and making these transactions a minority. Wallets should convey within their transaction
  creation UX that amounts are revealed in these situations.

>   - Wallets should take steps to migrate their userbases to store funds uniformly within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Wallets should take steps to migrate their user bases to store funds uniformly within
```

using a proving system that is both amenable to recursion and does not require an SRS.

Specification
=============

The Orchard protocol MUST be implemented as specified in the Zcash Protocol Specification
[#orchard-spec]_.

Given that the Orchard protocol largely follows the design of the Sapling protocol, we
provide here a list of differences, with references to their normative specifications and
associated design rationale.

Curves
------

The Orchard protocol uses the Pallas / Vesta curve cycle, in place of BLS12-381 and its
embedded curve Jubjub:

- Pallas is used as the "application curve", on which the Orchard protocol itself is
  implemented (c/f Jubjub).
- Vesta is used as the "circuit curve"; its scalar field (being the base field of Pallas)
  is the "word" type over which the circuit is implemented (c/f BLS12-381).

We use the "simplified SWU" algorithm to define an infallible :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`,
instead of the fallible BLAKE2s-based mechanism used for Sapling. It is intended to follow
(version 10 of) the IETF hash-to-curve Internet Draft [#ietf-hash-to-curve]_ (but the
protocol specification takes precedence in the case of any discrepancy).

> The presence of the curve cycle is an explicit design choice. This ZIP only uses half of
> the cycle (Pallas being an embedded curve of Vesta); the full cycle is expected to be
> leveraged by future ZIPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The presence of the curve cycle is an explicit design choice. This proposal only uses half
of the cycle (Pallas being an embedded curve of Vesta); the full cycle is expected to be
leveraged by future protocol updates.
```

Author: I was using "ZIP" here because I thought it might read weirdly to have "proposal" in something that gets finalized. (Yes I know ZIP contains the word "proposal".)

Reviewer: "ZIP" isn't correct because it's not the ZIP that is "using half of the cycle", it's the new protocol proposed by the ZIP.

- Curve specifications: [#spec-pasta]_
- :math:`\mathsf{GroupHash}`: [#spec-pasta-grouphash]_
- Supporting evidence: [#pasta-evidence]_

Proving system
--------------

Orchard uses the Halo 2 proving system with the UltraPLONK arithmetization (UPA), instead
of Groth16 and R1CS.

> This ZIP does not make use of Halo 2's support for recursive proofs, but this is expected
> to be leveraged by future ZIPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal does not make use of Halo 2's support for recursive proofs, but this is expected
to be leveraged by future protocol updates.
```
